resume.md, before:

Edgar Said Hernández Sánchez
============

Summary
----------
Professional Software Developer, Sr. Procrastinator and Jr. Father.

I have 7+ years of experience developing mostly web applications using C# and JavaScript, with a little of Ruby, F#, Python and C++ on the mix. I have been working always as a Full Stack Developer so I have the same years of inexperience on Front-end as in Back-end.

I am sure that I have learnt a lot of things all this years but I am not able to articulate exactly what... that much I have learnt.

I love to solve problems and I like to participate in all kind of programming contests when I have time.

Education
----------
__Universidad Abierta y a Distancia de México (UNADM)__  
01/2015 - Current  
__B.S. Mathematics__. (Lic. en Matemáticas)  
I am currently a student at the national online University of Mexico.

__Facultad de Matemáticas de la Universidad de Guanajuato. (CIMAT)__  
08/2002 – 07/2007 _Guanajuato, Mexico_  
__B.S. Computer science__. (Lic. En Computación)  
Truncated in last semester with 90% of completion.  

Experience
----------
### Software Developer (Computer Information Systems Assistant)
__[United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime/Conference Management Service/Applications Development Team](https://www.unvienna.org/unov/en/management_cms.html)__  
_01/2013 – current_  

* Developed a tool in F# to deploy several report projects to several SQL Server Reporting Services servers reducing the deployment time and allowing CI and automatic deployment with Octopus Deploy.
* Participated in the development of a new AngularJS application ([VIC Online](http://myconference.unov.org)) to show the integrated information of UN's Conferences allowing UN delegates to access the documents and digital recordings on their mobile devices before and after the conference. All information is gathered automatically from the internal management systems.
* Participated in the maintenance and development of new features for two ASP .Net MVC 3 applications used to manage the services required for the smooth functioning of UN conferences all over the globe.
* Currently I am part of a team developing a "Computer Aided Translation" tool using Lucene.Net.


### Software Development Engineer
__[Knowtion](http://www.knowtion.biz/)__  
_08/2012 – 12/2012_

* Development of a web application to administrate communication between several RabbitMQ instances.
* Participated in the maintenance and development of new functionalities for a C#/WPF application.


###Sr. Software Development Engineer
__[Grupo Advantage](http://www.grupoadvantage.com/)__  
_03/2011 – 08/2012_  

* Designed and developed a tool to load historical data from production log files and send them in several concurrent threads to an Invoice Emission Service allowing the team to implement regression and stress test for this service.
* Designed and developed a Thin Client for an Invoice Validation Service helping Grupo Advantage's clients to validate thousands of invoices in minutes instead of days.
* Designed and developed a component to generate and validate API keys used to connect to the public API of Grupo Advantage.
* Participated on the development of the front end and backend of a web application used to validate XML invoices.


###Lead Developer / Cofounder
__Corporación Augures__  
_11/2010 – 02/2012_  

* Responsible for the technical decisions concerning the development tools, databases, and deployment environments for the company applications.
* Designed and developed a Client-Server C#/WPF/WCF application to calculate the assignment of assets in portfolios using the Mean-Variance Model of Harry Markowitz in a dynamic way.


###Technical Leader / Technical Specialist (Pre-sales)
__IDS Comercial - Client:IBM Mexico__  
_11/2009 – 02/2011_  

* Led a team of 5 developers and introduced Code Reviews and Test Driven Development methodologies improving the code quality in general.
* Led a project to replace a Business Process Manager (BPM) used in an application, from a vendor solution to a custom BPM, unsuccessfully trying to improve the overall performance.
* Participated in the creation of two successful sales projects analysing and estimating the requirements.


###Analyst Programmer
__[Digipro S.A.](http://www.digipro.com.mx/)__  
_03/2008 – 11/2009_  

* Designed and developed the document visualization web control for a Software as a Service application taking in consideration all the security restrictions imposed by the banks.
* Developed a tool to configure new instances of the main application reducing the configuration time of a project from 4 days to 4 hours.


###Software Developer
__[CIMAT](http://www.cimat.mx/en) Software Development Factory__  
_09/2006 – 02/2008_  

*  Developed an image-based measurement plugin that could be used on static images and videos using Borland C++ Builder 6 and DirectShow.
* Participated in the design of a module for hand writing recognition.


Technical Skills
----------
* __.Net__ C#, ASP .Net MVC, WPF, WCF
* __JavaScript__ jQuery, AngularJs, Vanilla JavaScript
* __SQL__ MS SQL Server 2005-2012
* __Additional known (basic level) programming languages:__ Ruby, Objective-C, Python, F#, Swift


Achievements
----------
* Finalist in Google Code Jam Latinamerica 2007
* First and second place in several Component Development Contests in TopCoder. [Profile](http://www.topcoder.com/member-profile/limowankenobi/)

Projects
----------
###Trainer/Leader
__Guanjuato State Informatics Olympiad (OIEG)__
_November 2004 - December 2007_
The OIEG is an independent non-profit organization whose main activity is the organization of the Informatics Olympiad at the State level in Guanajuato Mexico. Hosted under funding from the Universidad de Guanajuato and the Centre for Mathematical Research (CIMAT) and composed of about 10 voluntary trainers and advisors. Each year, the OIEG organizes a programming contest over many high schools in the state to select a team of the best students that will represent the State in the National competition. Guanajuato's team has obtained the overall first place nationally 9 of the last 10 years, including twice while I was a trainer and advisor.


Certifications
----------
* MCTS Microsoft .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET Application Development in C#
* MCTS: Web Applications Development with Microsoft .NET Framework 4

[Transcript](https://mcp.microsoft.com/Anonymous//Transcript/Validate)  
Transcript ID (1001890)  
Access Code (edgarshs)

Links
----------
* [Github Profile](https://github.com/LimoWanKenobi)
* [Personal Blog](http://limowankenobi.github.io/)
* [Stack Overflow Profile](http://stackoverflow.com/users/149885/limo-wan-kenobi)
* [TopCoder Profile](http://www.topcoder.com/member-profile/limowankenobi/)
* [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/pub/edgar-said-hern%C3%A1ndez-s%C3%A1nchez/16/713/925/en)
* [Twitter](https://twitter.com/edhzsz)

Commit message:

Getting serious
Removed joke summary and changed for a more serious one.
Added city to each job experience.

resume.md, after:

Edgar Said Hernández Sánchez
============

Summary
----------
Professional Full Stack Software Developer with 8+ years of experience developing web and desktop applications using C# and JavaScript with a little of Ruby, F#, Python and C++ on the mix. Experienced working in multinational and distributed teams provinding service for clients all around the globe.

Education
----------
__Universidad Abierta y a Distancia de México (UNADM)__  
01/2015 - Current  
__B.S. Mathematics__. (Lic. en Matemáticas)  
I am currently a second semester student at the National Online University of Mexico.

__Facultad de Matemáticas de la Universidad de Guanajuato. (CIMAT)__  
08/2002 – 07/2007 _Guanajuato, Mexico_  
__B.S. Computer science__. (Lic. En Computación)  
Truncated in last semester with 90% of completion.  

Experience
----------
### Software Developer (Computer Information Systems Assistant)
__[United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime/Conference Management Service/Applications Development Team](https://www.unvienna.org/unov/en/management_cms.html)__  
_Vienna, Austria_  
_01/2013 – current_  

* Developed a tool in F# to deploy several report projects to several SQL Server Reporting Services servers reducing the deployment time and allowing CI and automatic deployment with Octopus Deploy.
* Participated in the development of a new AngularJS application ([VIC Online](http://myconference.unov.org)) to show the integrated information of UN's Conferences allowing UN delegates to access the documents and digital recordings on their mobile devices before and after the conference. All information is gathered automatically from the internal management systems.
* Participated in the maintenance and development of new features for two ASP .Net MVC 3 applications used to manage the services required for the smooth functioning of UN conferences all over the globe.
* Currently I am part of a team developing a "Computer Aided Translation" tool using Lucene.Net.


### Software Development Engineer
__[Knowtion](http://www.knowtion.biz/)__  
_México City, México_  
_08/2012 – 12/2012_

* Development of a web application to coordinate and monitor the communication between several RabbitMQ instances.
* Participated in the maintenance and development of new functionalities for a C#/WPF application.


###Sr. Software Development Engineer
__[Grupo Advantage](http://www.grupoadvantage.com/)__  
_México City, México_  
_03/2011 – 08/2012_  

* Designed and developed a tool to load historical data from production log files and send them in several concurrent threads to an Invoice Emission Service allowing the team to implement regression and stress test for this service.
* Designed and developed a Thin Client for an Invoice Validation Service helping Grupo Advantage's clients to validate thousands of invoices in minutes instead of days.
* Designed and developed a component to generate and validate API keys used to connect to the public API of Grupo Advantage.
* Participated on the development of the front end and backend of a web application used to validate XML invoices.


###Lead Developer / Cofounder
__Corporación Augures__  
_México City, México_  
_11/2010 – 02/2012_  

* Responsible for the technical decisions concerning the development tools, databases, and deployment environments for the company applications.
* Designed and developed a Client-Server C#/WPF/WCF application to calculate the assignment of assets in portfolios using the Mean-Variance Model of Harry Markowitz in a dynamic way.


###Technical Leader / Technical Specialist (Pre-sales)
__IDS Comercial - Client:IBM Mexico__  
_México City, México_  
_11/2009 – 02/2011_  

* Led a team of 5 developers and introduced Code Reviews and Test Driven Development methodologies improving the code quality in general.
* Led a project to replace a Business Process Manager (BPM) used in an application, from a vendor solution to a custom BPM, unsuccessfully trying to improve the overall performance.
* Participated in the creation of two successful sales projects analysing and estimating the requirements.


###Analyst Programmer
__[Digipro S.A.](http://www.digipro.com.mx/)__  
_México City, México_  
_03/2008 – 11/2009_  

* Designed and developed the document visualization web control for a Software as a Service application taking in consideration all the security restrictions imposed by the banks.
* Developed a tool to provision new instances of the main application, reducing the configuration time of a project from 4 days to 4 hours.


###Software Developer
__[CIMAT](http://www.cimat.mx/en) Software Development Factory__  
_Guanajuato, México_  
_09/2006 – 02/2008_  

*  Developed an image-based measurement plugin, using Borland C++ Builder 6 and DirectShow, that could be used on static images and videos.
* Participated in the design of a module for hand writing recognition.


Technical Skills
----------
* __.Net__ C#, ASP .Net MVC, WPF, WCF
* __JavaScript__ jQuery, AngularJs, Vanilla JavaScript
* __SQL__ MS SQL Server 2005-2012
* __Additional known (basic level) programming languages:__ Ruby, Objective-C, Python, F#, Swift


Achievements
----------
* Finalist in Google Code Jam Latinamerica 2007
* First and second place in several Component Development Contests in TopCoder. [Profile](http://www.topcoder.com/member-profile/limowankenobi/)

Projects
----------
###Trainer/Leader
__Guanjuato State Informatics Olympiad (OIEG)__
_November 2004 - December 2007_
The OIEG is an independent non-profit organization whose main activity is the organization of the Informatics Olympiad at the State level in Guanajuato Mexico. Hosted under funding from the Universidad de Guanajuato and the Centre for Mathematical Research (CIMAT) and composed of about 10 voluntary trainers and advisors. Each year, the OIEG organizes a programming contest over many high schools in the state to select a team of the best students that will represent the State in the National competition. Guanajuato's team has obtained the overall first place nationally 9 of the last 10 years, including twice while I was a trainer and advisor.


Certifications
----------
* MCTS Microsoft .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET Application Development in C#
* MCTS: Web Applications Development with Microsoft .NET Framework 4

[Transcript](https://mcp.microsoft.com/Anonymous//Transcript/Validate)  
Transcript ID (1001890)  
Access Code (edgarshs)

Links
----------
* [Github Profile](https://github.com/LimoWanKenobi)
* [Personal Blog](http://limowankenobi.github.io/)
* [Stack Overflow Profile](http://stackoverflow.com/users/149885/limo-wan-kenobi)
* [TopCoder Profile](http://www.topcoder.com/member-profile/limowankenobi/)
* [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/pub/edgar-said-hern%C3%A1ndez-s%C3%A1nchez/16/713/925/en)
* [Twitter](https://twitter.com/edhzsz)
